I am in the British Museum, after closing, when all the visitors have gone,
and here is the Rosetta Stone.
It was the key to understanding Egyptian hieroglyphics, and it is one of the most precious treasures and
valuable from the British Museum.
In fact, this is not the authentic Rosetta Stone - they are locked in a closet incredibly
protected on the other side of the main yard; This is the reply that let people touch.
And so many people have to do a new replication, by hand, each pair
of years. Anyway.
Until Rose Rosetta was discovered, and was quickly "acquired" by the Napoleon campaign
In Egypt, no one in modern times had any idea of ​​how Egyptian writing worked. The idea
Most popular it was that it was purely ideographic, where each drawing represented a concept.
Modern linguists know that this is unlikely, but this is more obvious in perspective: without
no context or existing translations, there was no way to decipher any hieroglyphic,
nowhere
But after all: the Rosetta Stone. Originally part of a temple that probably fell when
a Roman emperor closed all non-Christian temples, and then probably used as a
construction material. He was buried for centuries, until French soldiers found her and one
of them realized what could be their importance. The same text, in three languages:
hieroglyphics, demotic, and most importantly, classical Greek,
that had never been forgotten.
But the translation was not easy. Academics took twenty years to find out, because the stone
is full of jargon The concepts that are there are not simple. And Egyptian hieroglyphics are complicated:
the same symbol can be used phonetically, to represent a sound; and to represent one
abstract concept; and to literally represent what he has drawn; all depending on the context.
And yes, it's a bit like sending messages with emoticons, if you think about it.
The great track that helped translate is here: cartridges, these circles with lines.
They are honorary brands that are placed next to the names of the kings. So scholars know this:
There are names in other languages ​​here that we can read. These names also appeared in the
hieroglyphs Wait, there was also the theory that the cartridges represented names. So that
if we stick these letters with ... in short, I am simplifying, very much; It was incredibly amazing
difficult, and to make it more frustrating, the translations are not exact: there are differences between
each of the three texts. But once a bit was deciphered, there was an entrance, and
With decades of effort, we began to be able to translate hieroglyphics.
The question that few people are making, however, is: what does Rosetta Stone say? What
Is there written here? What mysteries of the life of ancient Egypt are revealed? It goes from a royal cult
You get certain favors, including tax exemption. It is, essentially, tax paperwork
of Ancient Egypt.
The British Museum is testing four new series on YouTube, and the one you like the most
will come true
So visit your channel! And many thanks to them to let me in
to this incredible place outside hours of visit.
[Subtitles: Rafa Ribas]